URL: https://geminicli.com/docs/resources/tos-privacy/
Scraped: 2026-02-27T16:12:13.290901+00:00

Gemini CLI: License, Terms of Service, and Privacy Notices | Gemini CLI
Skip to content
Gemini CLI: License, Terms of Service, and Privacy Notices
Gemini CLI is an open-source tool that lets you interact with Google’s powerful
AI services directly from your command-line interface. The Gemini CLI software
is licensed under the
Apache 2.0 license
.
When you use Gemini CLI to access or use Google’s services, the Terms of Service
and Privacy Notices applicable to those services apply to such access and use.
Directly accessing the services powering Gemini CLI (e.g., the Gemini Code
Assist service) using third-party software, tools, or services (for example,
using OpenClaw with Gemini CLI OAuth) is a violation of applicable terms and
policies. Such actions may be grounds for suspension or termination of your
account.
Your Gemini CLI Usage Statistics are handled in accordance with Google’s Privacy
Policy.
Note:
See
quotas and pricing
for the
quota and pricing details that apply to your usage of the Gemini CLI.
Supported authentication methods
Section titled “Supported authentication methods”
Your authentication method refers to the method you use to log into and access
Google’s services with Gemini CLI. Supported authentication methods include:
Logging in with your Google account to Gemini Code Assist.
Using an API key with Gemini Developer API.
Using an API key with Vertex AI GenAI API.
The Terms of Service and Privacy Notices applicable to the aforementioned Google
services are set forth in the table below.
If you log in with your Google account and you do not already have a Gemini Code
Assist account associated with your Google account, you will be directed to the
sign up flow for Gemini Code Assist for individuals. If your Google account is
managed by your organization, your administrator may not permit access to Gemini
Code Assist for individuals. Please see the
Gemini Code Assist for individuals FAQs
for further information.
Authentication Method
Service(s)
Terms of Service
Privacy Notice
Google Account
Gemini Code Assist services
Terms of Service
Privacy Notices
Gemini Developer API Key
Gemini API - Unpaid Services
Gemini API Terms of Service - Unpaid Services
Google Privacy Policy
Gemini Developer API Key
Gemini API - Paid Services
Gemini API Terms of Service - Paid Services
Google Privacy Policy
Vertex AI GenAI API Key
Vertex AI GenAI API
Google Cloud Platform Terms of Service
Google Cloud Privacy Notice
1. If you have logged in with your Google account to Gemini Code Assist
Section titled “1. If you have logged in with your Google account to Gemini Code Assist”
For users who use their Google account to access
Gemini Code Assist
, these Terms of Service and
Privacy Notice documents apply:
Gemini Code Assist for individuals:
Google Terms of Service
and
Gemini Code Assist for individuals Privacy Notice
.
Gemini Code Assist with Google AI Pro or Ultra subscription:
Google Terms of Service
,
Google One Additional Terms of Service
and
Google Privacy Policy*
.
Gemini Code Assist Standard and Enterprise editions:
Google Cloud Platform Terms of Service
and
Google Cloud Privacy Notice
.
* If your account is also associated with an active subscription to Gemini
Code Assist Standard or Enterprise edition, the terms and privacy policy of
Gemini Code Assist Standard or Enterprise edition will apply to all your use of
Gemini Code Assist.
2. If you have logged in with a Gemini API key to the Gemini Developer API
Section titled “2. If you have logged in with a Gemini API key to the Gemini Developer API”
If you are using a Gemini API key for authentication with the
Gemini Developer API
, these Terms of
Service and Privacy Notice documents apply:
Terms of Service: Your use of the Gemini CLI is governed by the
Gemini API Terms of Service
. These
terms may differ depending on whether you are using an unpaid or paid service:
For unpaid services, refer to the
Gemini API Terms of Service - Unpaid Services
.
For paid services, refer to the
Gemini API Terms of Service - Paid Services
.
Privacy Notice: The collection and use of your data is described in the
Google Privacy Policy
.
3. If you have logged in with a Gemini API key to the Vertex AI GenAI API
Section titled “3. If you have logged in with a Gemini API key to the Vertex AI GenAI API”
If you are using a Gemini API key for authentication with a
Vertex AI GenAI API
backend, these Terms of Service and Privacy Notice documents apply:
Terms of Service: Your use of the Gemini CLI is governed by the
Google Cloud Platform Service Terms
.
Privacy Notice: The collection and use of your data is described in the
Google Cloud Privacy Notice
.
Usage statistics opt-out
Section titled “Usage statistics opt-out”
You may opt-out from sending Gemini CLI Usage Statistics to Google by following
the instructions available here:
Usage Statistics Configuration
.
This website uses
cookies
from Google to deliver and enhance the quality of its services and to analyze
        traffic.